USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-21 September 2023 
remain in an approved National OCS Program.12  The full process for a typical lease sale is 
described below in more detail.   
1. Call for Information and Nominations (30 Code of Federal Regulations [CFR] 
556.301)—In the first step of the lease sale process, BOEM issues a Call for Information 
and Nominations (Call) in the Federal Register on an area proposed for leasing.  
Potential bidders are invited to submit nominations or indications of interest in specific 
OCS blocks within the Call Area.  The Call also solicits comments about geological 
conditions; archaeological sites; potential multiple uses of the area including navigation, 
recreation, and fisheries; socioeconomic, biological, and other environmental 
information; and asks the public for information on areas of special concern that should 
be analyzed.   
2. Area Identification (30 CFR 556.302)—Area Identification (Area ID) is the second major 
step in BOEM’s oil and gas lease sale process.  During Area ID, BOEM uses information 
and comments received in response to a Call, and in consultation with appropriate 
Federal agencies, develops a recommendation to the Secretary for the area(s) to be 
subject to further leasing consideration and environmental analyses.  The Area ID 
decision is announced in the Federal Register. 
3. Review under NEPA—BOEM performs a NEPA review for each lease sale.  This 
typically includes an EIS that considers the impacts associated with oil and gas activities 
for a given region or program area.  The NEPA for subsequent lease sales in the same 
region or program area may rely on that EIS as appropriate, after BOEM confirms 
through a DNA or EA that EIS supplementation is not required.  
4. Government-to-Government Consultations—Under Executive Order (E.O.) 13175 and 
the Department of the Interior Policy on Consultation with Indian Tribes, BOEM is 
obligated to engage in government-to-government consultations with Tribes on any 
Departmental action with Tribal implications.  This includes federally recognized Tribes 
with current and historic interests in coastal areas of Alaska, the Pacific, the GOM, and 
the Atlantic.  In Alaska, BOEM additionally consults with Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act (ANCSA) Corporations.  These consultations are conducted on 
additional approvals (e.g., plans and permits) as appropriate throughout the life of an 
OCS oil and gas lease. 
5. Environmental Consultations—Consultations under various environmental statutes 
occur, such as the Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973 (16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq.) 
and Section 305(b) of the Magnuson--Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management 
Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 1801 et seq.).  Pursuant to these environmental statutes, BOEM is 
required to consult with agencies such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) 
 
12 Solicitor’s M Opinion 36954, Whether the Department May Issue a Call for Information & Nominations for Outer 
Continental Shelf Lease Sale 91, 93 I.D. 125 (1986). 
