USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-10 September 2023 
1.2.3.2 Energy Security 
Domestic energy production, including OCS production, has the potential to enhance U.S. 
national security by reducing U.S. dependence on imported crude oil.  Maximizing domestic crude 
oil and natural gas production can contribute to both U.S. and worldwide energy security by 
providing adequate supply that can help limit the impact of foreign supply shocks and reduce 
future price volatility (Krauss 2018). 
Crude oil and LNG are global commodities sold in a competitive world market; a reduction in 
supply (or an increase in demand) in one part of the world causes shifts in global prices.  The 
continuing possibility of high and volatile prices raises important energy policy issues about 
supply options and their economic as well as environmental effects.  As the U.S. progresses in 
transitioning to a new energy economy to meet climate goals, it will rely less on crude oil and 
natural gas and be less susceptible to global crude oil and natural gas supply shocks.  However, 
during the transition to new energy sources, the U.S. will continue to rely on crude oil and natural 
gas supply to ensure continued energy security. 
1.2.3.3 Technology 
New technologies employed by the crude oil and natural gas industry are, in large part, 
responsible for making the U.S. the world’s top producer of crude oil and natural gas.  Many of 
these technological advances include offshore technology developed in the GOM that have 
greatly expanded offshore resources accessible for production, especially in deeper water depths.  
In addition, the OCS crude oil and natural gas industry has reduced deepwater (200 meters or 
greater) project costs through greater equipment standardization. 
Higher quality geological and geophysical (G&G) data―achieved through state-of-the-art 
acquisition methods and processing—has aided in the identification of prospects and effective 
well placement, which improves the probability for commercial discoveries.  Consequently, 
companies are able to drill fewer wells per discovery in the best prospects (Raval 2018).  
Advanced composite materials and materials engineering have improved OCS structures and 
moorings to better withstand the operating environment.  These and other technologies 
developed for crude oil and natural gas operations have contributed (and continue to contribute) 
to U.S. leadership in the crude oil and natural gas industries, while supporting U.S. economic 
growth and helping to meet domestic and global energy needs. 
1.2.3.4 Low GHG Intensity of OCS Production 
Technological advancements and a strong regulatory framework have contributed to reducing the 
carbon profile of the OCS.  Based on current research, data suggest that deepwater GOM 
production has among the lowest carbon intensities of crude oil projects.  The deepwater GOM’s 
low GHG intensity is due to several factors including restrictions on venting and flaring of OCS 