2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program September 2023 
 
7 Final Proposal on OCS Lease Sales for 2024–2029 
 
the coastal zone. The Gulf Coast region has 
the most throughput of crude oil and 
petroleum products because it has the most 
production, refining capacity, and an extensive 
import and export infrastructure. The region 
has the greatest ability to use its resource 
potential to supply the Nation’s energy needs. 
The GOM Program Area is adjacent to robust 
refining and natural gas processing capacity, 
and Gulf Coast refineries have access to 
domestically produced oil from the OCS, state 
waters, and onshore, as well as imported oil, 
and can blend oil of various grades and 
qualities to obtain the best prices given their 
specific equipment and facilities. 
While the GOM region is sensitive to the 
environ
mental impacts of development, there 
are many commercial, recreational, and 
subsistence uses within the area, including 
non-energy marine minerals and the potential 
development of renewable energy. In recent 
decades, Gulf Coast states have received 
most of the developmental benefits and borne 
most of the environmental risks associated 
with developing OCS resources because most 
OCS oil and gas activities occur in the GOM. 
Chapte
r 9 discusses the equitable sharing of 
benefits
 and risks of implementing the Second 
Proposal across regions, recognizing that 
significant infrastructure for oil and gas 
development already exists in and near the 
GOM.  Therefore, lower levels of new 
development would be required, potentially 
avoiding or reducing environmental risks 
associated with new coastal development. In 
addition, the current, extensive onshore 
infrastructure contributes to local and state 
economies and helps fund government 
services. Continued Federal oil and gas 
leasing in the GOM is supported by the 
governors from the Gulf Coast states of 
Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  
Under a No S
ale Option, the consequences 
for the GOM region could include losses of 
employment and business opportunities for 
communities that have been providing goods, 
services, and labor to support OCS activities. 
However, the ultimate effects of the No Sale 
Option depend on the prevailing economic 
environment, including factors such as energy 
prices, resource discoveries, and the evolution 
of the economy to support new economic and 
employment opportunities.  
There is flexibility at the lease sale stage to 
adopt a targeted approach such that the GOM 
Program Area could be narrowed by 
removing, among other options, acreage that 
has not recently had extensive bidding, 
exploration, or development activity, or which 
does not contain actively pursued geologic 
plays or areas of recent seismic acquisition 
and processing. Such flexibility could also 
allow for the removal of biologically sensitive 
areas and areas of potential conflict with other 
uses and users of the marine environment. 
This targeted approach would only offer lease 
sales in areas with high resource potential 
while appropriately weighing environmental 
protection, other uses of the ocean and 
seabed, and other considerations, consistent 
with the policy of the OCS Lands Act to make 
OCS oil and gas resources available for 
expeditious and orderly development while 
considering safeguards for the human, 
marine, and coastal environment.   
The No Sale Option was selected for the Cook 
Inlet Pr
ogram Area due to limited expressed 
interest of potential oil and gas producers, the 
lack of development on existing OCS leases, 
and the potential for higher environmental 
risks associated with new leasing in relatively 
undeveloped areas as described in the Final 
Programmatic EIS.  The Cook Inlet Program 
Area has recently seen low levels of industry 
interest. No specific indications of interest 
were received from oil and gas companies in 
response to the Call for Information and 
Nominations for Lease Sale 258; this sale was 
ultimately held in 2022 as directed by the IRA 
and resulted in one lease on one tract. There 