USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-17 September 2023 
The Programmatic EIS considers potential geographic exclusions and restrictions on lessee 
activities for this National OCS Program.  The final decision on the National OCS Program can 
adopt any analyzed exclusions within program areas otherwise included that are sufficiently 
identifiable at the Programmatic stage.  In addition, the Secretary may determine not to offer 
sensitive subareas at subsequent stages, such as at the lease sale stage.  
Table 1-1 shows the NEPA documentation associated with the various stages of National OCS 
Program and lease sale development.   
Table 1-1:  Typical NEPA Assessments for the National OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program 
Program 
Level Program Stage NEPA 
Documentation 
Geographic 
Scope Focus and Scope 
Planning National OCS 
Program 
Programmatic 
EIS (NEPA is 
discretionary at 
this stage) 
National Inform choice of program 
areas and number of sales 
for the schedule of lease 
sales in the National OCS 
Program. Consider National 
OCS Program-level 
environmental impacts and 
identify mitigation 
measures. 
Lease Sale Lease Sale NEPA Review  
(EIS, EA, or DNA) 
Program Area Assess potential 
environmental impacts and 
mitigation measures (EIS or 
EA) to inform choice of 
parcels to be offered, or 
determine that these are 
adequately covered in a 
previously prepared NEPA 
document (DNA) 
Project Exploration DNA, CER, EA, or 
EIS 
Portion of lease 
block(s) 
Assess effects of proposed 
activities to inform decision 
to approve, disapprove, or 
approve with mitigation 
measures  
Production DNA, CER, EA, or 
EIS 
Portion of lease 
block(s) 
Decommissioning DNA, CER, EA, or 
EIS 
Specific facility 
within a lease 
block 
Note: The level of NEPA analysis at the project level is determined by the complexity of the project, risk factors 
associated with the project, project location relative to other uses or environmentally important areas, technologies 
proposed for use, and other factors. 
Key: CER = categorical exclusion review; DNA = Determination of NEPA Adequacy; EA = environmental assessment; 
EIS = environmental impact statement. 
Additionally, BOEM informs federally recognized Tribal governments that a National OCS 
Program is being prepared, to include the steps in the National OCS Program development 
process and where to find additional information on meetings and opportunities to provide 
comments (see Section 11.1).  BOEM recognizes the unique relationship between the U.S. and 