USDOI 
2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program 
BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 
1-12
September 2023 
costs and streamline activities.  The impact of the OCS crude oil and natural gas industry on GDP 
and employment is discussed in Chapter 9 in the context of the geographical distribution of 
developmental benefits and environmental risk, which also describes the revenues available to 
the local, state, and Federal governments.  In general, OCS leasing and production provide the 
following public revenues: 
 funds to the U.S. Treasury 
 funding for the Historic Preservation Fund 
 funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) 
 OCS Lands Act Section 8(g) and Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (GOMESA) 
revenue sharing payments to states11 
 Great American Outdoors Act (GAOA) funding up to $1.3 billion per year from Fiscal 
Year (FY) 2021 through FY 2025 
1.2.4 
OCS Role in Meeting National Energy Needs 
Although leasing decisions made in this National OCS Program are not guaranteed to result in 
new production for several years, the development and production would eventually contribute 
to meeting national energy needs.  This increased national energy supply would also provide 
other national benefits in terms of the balance of payments and trade, energy security, 
technology advancement, lower carbon-intensity crude oil and natural gas production, public 
revenues, and employment.  Absent future lease sales, OCS production is expected to continue to 
occur from existing leases.  Section 5.2.8 discusses the potential for crude oil and natural gas 
development from existing leases.  Without future lease sales or additional opportunities for 
project expansions, tie-back fields, or new developments, OCS production would ultimately 
decline.  
BOEM’s responsibility to develop a National OCS Program requires consideration of the size, 
timing, and location of lease sales over a 5-year period, with the understanding that leasing could 
have impacts for decades.  While activities associated with new leases will generate years of 
economic opportunities, crude oil and natural gas production from new leases will likely not 
commence until approximately 5 years (for shallow water production) to 10 years (for deep water 
production) following a lease award.   
The Secretary may also re-evaluate national energy needs when deciding whether to hold any 
individual lease sales included in the approved National OCS Program.  These additional decision 
11 Section 8(g) of the OCS Lands Act provides for the Federal government to share with any coastal state adjacent to 
OCS oil and gas activity 27% of revenues earned from OCS leases within 3 nm seaward of the state’s submerged lands 
boundary.  The shared revenues are referred to as “8(g) revenues.”  In 2006, Congress passed the GOMESA, which 
mandates that the states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama receive a portion of revenues from new oil and 
natural gas development in Federal waters adjacent to these states.  
