USDOI 
2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program 
BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 
1-22 
September 2023 
and National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS).  BOEM also consults, as appropriate, 
under Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. § 306108). 
6. 
Proposed Notice of Sale (NOS) (30 CFR 556.304)—The proposed NOS describes the 
timing, size, and location of a proposed oil and gas lease sale.  It also provides potential 
bidders with information on proposed economic terms and conditions and any proposed 
mitigation measures (i.e., lease stipulations), which are typically designed to reduce 
potential conflicts with other ocean uses and to protect the environment.  BOEM 
publishes a notice of availability of the proposed NOS in the Federal Register. 
7. 
Coordination with Governors of Affected States (30 CFR 556.304-307)—Section 19 of 
the OCS Lands Act (43 U.S.C. § 1345) requires BOEM to solicit input on the size, timing, 
and location of lease sales from governors of affected states.  BOEM sends the proposed 
NOS to governors of affected states requesting their recommendations on the proposed 
size, timing, and location of the lease sale.  The governors have 60 days to submit their 
recommendations to BOEM.  Prior to holding the lease sale, BOEM sends each governor 
written reasons for USDOI’s determination to accept or reject that governor’s 
recommendation. 
8. 
Consistency Determination (30 CFR 556.305(b))—All Federal activities affecting the 
coastal zone, including OCS oil and gas lease sales, must be consistent to the maximum 
extent practicable with the enforceable policies of an affected state’s coastal zone 
management (CZM) program (see 16 U.S.C. § 1456(c)(1) and (2)).  BOEM provides 
coastal states with a consistency determination on whether the proposed lease sale is 
consistent, to the maximum extent practicable, with the enforceable policies of federally 
approved state Coastal Management Plans.  That is not done, however, for Alaska lease 
sales since the State of Alaska no longer has a federally approved Coastal Management 
Plan.  For more information on BOEM’s CZM work, see https://www.boem.gov/Coastal-
Zone-Management-Act/). 
9. 
Issuance of a ROD (EIS-level), Finding of No New Significant Impact (FONSI; EA-
level) or DNA—Upon completion of the NEPA review for each individual lease sale, a 
determination is made as to the significance, or lack thereof, of potential environmental 
impacts.  Depending on the type of NEPA review undertaken for a lease sale, the NEPA 
review process is completed through the issuance of a ROD, a FONSI, or a DNA.   
10. 
Final NOS (30 CFR 556.308(a))—BOEM will publish a final NOS at least 30 days before 
a lease sale is held.  The final NOS includes information on how to submit bids; the date, 
time, and location of the bid opening and reading; the OCS blocks being offered; and 
terms and conditions of the lease sale, including lease stipulations. 
11. 
Holding the Lease Sale (30 CFR 556.516)—BOEM opens the sealed bids at the place, 
date, and hour specified in the final NOS for the sole purpose of publicly announcing and 
recording the bids.  BOEM does not accept or reject any bids at that time. 
