USDOI 
2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program 
BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 
1-19 
September 2023 
the Draft Proposal were also analyzed in the Draft Programmatic EIS.  The Proposed Program and 
Draft Programmatic EIS analyses informed the Secretary’s Second Proposal. 
On July 8, 2022, BOEM announced in the Federal Register (87 FR 40859) the publication of the 
Proposed Program and Draft Programmatic EIS.  This included an associated request for 
comments and feedback on the Proposed Program and Draft Programmatic EIS from other 
interested and affected parties during a 90-day comment period.  In addition, the Proposed 
Program was submitted to governors and relevant Federal agencies.  BOEM sent written 
responses to the Proposed Program comments from governors and other state officials 
commenting on behalf of governors, in conjunction with transmittal of the Proposed Program and 
Draft Programmatic EIS. 
1.3.1.4 
Proposed Final Program and Final Programmatic EIS 
The third and last analytical stage of the National OCS Program development process, the 
preparation of this PFP, is based on analysis of the Second Proposal and comments BOEM 
received on the Proposed Program and Draft Programmatic EIS.  Additionally, a Final 
Programmatic EIS that informs the Secretary’s Final Proposal has been prepared and released in 
conjunction with this PFP document.  The OCS areas identified for potential leasing in the Final 
Proposal are described in Part I of this PFP document.  
BOEM has announced publication of the PFP in the Federal Register  and will submit it to the 
President and Congress.  BOEM provides the President and Congress with the Final 
Programmatic EIS along with the PFP because the Programmatic EIS contains information and 
analyses that address Section 18 factors.  Copies of all comments received throughout the 
National OCS Program development process have been submitted to the President and Congress, 
as required.  BOEM also sent written responses to all comments received throughout the 
National OCS Program development process from governors and other state officials 
commenting on behalf of governors, in conjunction with transmittal of the PFP and Final 
Programmatic EIS per Section 18(c)(2) of the OCS Lands Act. 
1.3.1.5 
National OCS Program Approval and Record of Decision 
In accordance with Section 18(c)(2), the Secretary will not approve the PFP until at least 60 days 
after sending it to the President and Congress.  At the time of approval, the Secretary’s decision is 
described in the combined decision memo and record of decision (ROD) that is made publicly 
available; this marks the final step in the Section 18 and NEPA processes.  In general, the ROD 
identifies the schedule of potential lease sales to occur during the 2024–2029 period (i.e., the 
Department’s selected alternative under NEPA), presents the basis for the decision, and identifies 
methods to avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate environmental impacts.  The ROD could also 
adopt any programmatic mitigation measures or restrictions on leasing activities that the 
