2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program 
September 2023 
1 
Final Proposal on OCS Lease Sales for 2024–2029 
Part I: Proposed Final Program 
Final Proposal on the Size, Timing, and Location of OCS Lease Sales
Introduction 
Under Section 18 of the Outer Continental 
Shelf (OCS) Lands Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior (Secretary) is responsible for 
establishing a schedule of lease sales for a  
5-year period in a National OCS Oil and Gas
Leasing Program (National OCS Program) by
evaluating specified attributes of OCS areas.
The Secretary is authorized to select the size,
timing, and location of proposed OCS lease
sales that best meet national energy needs
and that balance, to the maximum extent
practicable, the potential for environmental
damage, discovery of oil and gas, and
adverse impact on the coastal zone.
National OCS Program Development 
Process 
The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
(BOEM) in the U.S. Department of the Interior 
(USDOI) is responsible for advising the 
Secretary on the National OCS Program and 
administering it once adopted. The 
development of the National OCS Program 
includes a Request for Information, followed 
by three analytical phases. The three phases 
used to develop a new National OCS Program 
include: issuance of the (1) Draft Proposed 
Program (DPP), including the Draft Proposal; 
(2) Proposed Program, including the Second
Proposal; and (3) Proposed Final Program
(PFP), including this Final Proposal. This
National OCS Program development process
begins with the broadest consideration of
areas available for leasing (i.e., all 26 OCS
planning areas), and the areas under
consideration can be narrowed at each stage
throughout that development process. See
Figure 1 for a depiction of the National OCS
Program development process.
In January 2018, BOEM published the first of 
the three analytical phases, the DPP, which 
included a proposed schedule of 47 lease 
sales in all four OCS regions and 25 of the 
26 planning areas. The subsequent Proposed 
Program, published in July 2022, had a 
proposed schedule of up to 11 lease sales in 
two program areas. Following the publication 
of the DPP, BOEM received more than 
2 million comments, and following the 
publication of the Proposed Program and the 
companion Draft Programmatic Environmental 
Impact Statement (Programmatic EIS), BOEM 
received approximately 760,000 comments. 
Diverse stakeholders and partners 
commented, including governors, Federal 
agencies, state agencies, local agencies, 
energy and non-energy industries, Tribal 
governments, non-governmental 
organizations and advocacy groups, and the 
public (see Chapter 11 and Appendix A for 
more information).  
The PFP, including this Final Proposal, and 
the companion Final Programmatic EIS 
present the analysis of the Proposed Program 
schedule of lease sales, referred to as the 
Second Proposal, and incorporate input 
received during the public comment period. 
Although analysis under the National 
Environmental Policy Act is not required at the 
National OCS Program development stage, 
BOEM chose to prepare a Programmatic EIS 
to aid in the evaluation of certain 
environmental, sociocultural, and 
socioeconomic impacts associated with the 
Second Proposal.  
The PFP and Final Programmatic EIS 
analyses present a comprehensive picture of 
the environmental, cultural, economic, and 
hydrocarbon resource considerations to aid 
the Secretary in determining the size, timing, 
and location of potential lease sales evaluated 
in this PFP for 2024–2029. 
