2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program 
September 2023 
 
6 
Final Proposal on OCS Lease Sales for 2024–2029 
 
demand and consumption patterns, a National 
OCS Program with no lease sales for 2024–
2029 would result in lower net benefits for the 
American public because substitute energy 
sources would be needed to meet projections 
for continued domestic oil and natural gas 
demand, and reliance on these sources is 
estimated to result in less net economic value, 
greater environmental and social costs, and 
reduced net consumer surplus (see Chapter 
5). Absent OCS lease sales in the 5 years 
following National OCS Program approval, 
OCS oil and gas production would continue 
only from existing leases. Production from 
existing OCS leases currently constitutes 15% 
of domestic oil production and 2% of domestic 
natural gas production (BSEE 2022, EIA 
2022a, 2022b, 2022c). Based on the number 
of active, non-producing leases and BOEM’s 
recent production forecast for the GOM (see 
Section 5.2) ―which quantifies future 
contributions from existing proved reserves, 
discovered resources not already developed, 
and undiscovered resources ― the Secretary 
determined that three potential lease sales in 
the GOM Program Area provide adequate 
access to the region’s oil and gas resources to 
meet national energy needs. 
Consideration of national energy needs 
includes the current energy landscape as well 
as the possibility of an energy market 
significantly transformed by transitioning to a 
net-zero emissions economy. The long-term 
nature of OCS oil and gas development, such 
that production on a lease may not begin for a 
decade or more after lease issuance and can 
continue for decades, makes consideration of 
net-zero pathways relevant to the Secretary’s 
determinations on how the National OCS 
Program best meets the Nation’s energy 
needs. The net-zero emissions pathways 
introduced in Section 1.2 illustrate the 
potential for less dependence on oil and gas 
as the electricity sector de-carbonizes. 
Chapter 5 summarizes analysis from the 
Economic Analysis Methodology Paper 
(BOEM 2023) on the impacts of potential net-
zero emissions pathways on BOEM’s analysis 
of OCS leasing. For example, BOEM’s 
analysis shows that, in a future where the U.S. 
makes significant progress towards its net-
zero emissions goals, a reduction in reliance 
on OCS oil and gas production would occur. 
This reduction will result in greater energy 
substitution from renewable sources and a 
greater reduction in consumption than is 
currently projected using baseline data from 
the EIA. In these alternative scenarios, BOEM 
would expect less reliance on imports and 
domestic onshore oil and gas production in 
the absence of OCS production. 
As the amount of energy produced from 
renewable sources and the consumption of 
such energy increases, the continued ability to 
issue leases for offshore renewable energy is 
another important consideration as the 
Secretary seeks to balance national energy 
needs with the impacts of climate change and 
other potential for environmental damage and 
impacts to coastal zones.  
Section 50265(b)(2) of the IRA requires 
BOEM to offer at least 60 million OCS acres 
for oil and gas leasing within the 12 months 
prior to issuing an offshore wind lease. The 
three lease sales in this Final Proposal have 
the potential to meet national energy needs 
along projected energy consumption and net-
zero emissions pathways, while providing 
other national benefits in terms of balance of 
payments of trade, energy security, 
technology advancement, lower  
carbon-intensity crude oil and natural gas 
production, public revenues, and employment 
(see Section 1.2.3). 
The Secretary has considered the eight 
Section 18(a)(2) factors and concluded that 
three potential lease sales in the GOM 
Program Area reflects a proper balance of the 
potential for environmental damage, discovery 
of oil and natural gas, and adverse impact on 
