USDOI 
2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program 
BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 
1-23 
September 2023 
12. 
Lease Issuance (30 CFR 556.520-522)—Before a lease can be issued, high bids are 
subject to evaluation regarding the receipt of fair market value (FMV) and analysis 
confirming that the award of any tract to the highest bidders in the lease sale would not 
create or maintain a situation inconsistent with anti-trust laws.  BOEM will issue a lease 
following completion of its FMV analysis and the anti-trust review conducted by the 
Department of Justice in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission. 
1.3.3 
Exploration and Development Process 
Areas with mature oil and gas development, such as the GOM, generally have more recent and 
therefore more sophisticated seismic data available (e.g., three-dimensional [3-D] seismic 
surveys) to assess oil and gas resources.  Frontier areas of the OCS generally only have older, less 
sophisticated seismic data (e.g., two-dimensional [2D] seismic surveys) available.  If leasing and 
related activities increase in frontier areas, new seismic data will be collected, and more detailed 
information will become available.  On the U.S. OCS, seismic data are typically acquired both prior 
to lease issuance (through the issuance of a permit) and after a lease is in effect.   
After BOEM issues a lease, a lessee typically accelerates the process to explore for oil and gas 
accumulations.  In some cases, potential oil and gas resources could already be identified through 
analysis of existing data and information.  Prior to exploration activities on the lease, an 
exploration plan is submitted to BOEM for environmental review and consideration for approval 
(see Figure 1-10).  
Figure 1-10:  OCS Exploration Plan and Drilling Review Process 
 
High-resolution geophysical surveys on a lease are performed prior to exploration plan submittal 
to identify natural and man-made hazards, areas of potentially sensitive benthic habitat such as 
hard bottom habitat and coral reefs, and significant cultural resources such as historic shipwrecks 
or inundated occupation sites on or below the seabed.  The next phase of exploration involves 
drilling an exploration well that targets the interpreted oil or gas trap in the subsurface to 
determine if an oil or gas resource exists.  If oil or gas is discovered in quantities appearing to be 
economically favorable, one or more follow-up delineation wells could be drilled to help define the 
amount of the resource or the extent of the reservoir.   
Delineation and production wells are sometimes both termed development wells.  If a lessee 
wishes to drill a development well, a development and production plan must be submitted to 
BOEM so that BOEM can perform environmental review and consider plan approval (see Figure 
1-11).   
