USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-18 September 2023 
Tribes and invites requests for government-to-government consultation.  This consultation can 
occur at the National OCS Program stage as well as during the subsequent stages of the process 
(e.g., lease sales, plan reviews).  Consultation and coordination with other Federal agencies, and 
state and Tribal governments, as required under specific environmental statutes, occur at 
subsequent stages of the leasing process. 
1.3.1.1 Request for Information and Comments 
In developing this National OCS Program, BOEM analyzed, among other items, regional and 
national energy needs; leasing interest as expressed by potential oil and gas producers; applicable 
laws, goals, and policies mentioned in the comments of affected states; comments and concerns 
of local governments and Tribes; public input; competing uses of the OCS; relative environmental 
sensitivity and marine productivity among OCS Regions; and the equitable sharing of benefits and 
risks among OCS Regions.   
On July 3, 2017, BOEM published in the Federal Register the RFI regarding the preparation of a 
2019–2024 Program (82 FR 30886).  Simultaneously with the release of the RFI, BOEM also sent 
letters to all governors and the heads of interested Federal agencies requesting their input during 
a 30-day comment period.  Pursuant to OCS Lands Act Section 18, BOEM requested that 
governors and oil and gas companies provide updated information regarding state laws and 
policies or industry interest, respectively. 
1.3.1.2 Draft Proposed Program and Notice of Intent to Prepare a 
Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement 
After considering the analyses associated with the Section 18 factors and principles for all 
26 planning areas, former Secretary Zinke issued the Draft Proposal, which was the initial 
proposal for this new National OCS Program.  BOEM announced the availability of, and requested 
comments on, the DPP in the Federal Register on January 8, 2018 (83 FR 829).   
That Federal Register notice also announced the Notice of Intent (NOI) to prepare a discretionary 
Programmatic EIS, which signaled the initiation of scoping for the NEPA document.  The DPP 
was distributed to interested and affected parties for a 60-day comment period and transmitted 
to all 50 governors and relevant Federal agencies.  Chapter 11 provides a more detailed discussion 
on public involvement and outreach for the National OCS Program and Programmatic EIS. 
1.3.1.3 Proposed Program and Draft Programmatic EIS 
The Proposed Program analysis focused on former Secretary Zinke’s Draft Proposal, as well as 
other Program Options identified when making the Draft Proposal.  These analyses provide 
information relevant for consideration of required Section 18 factors (see Chapter 2) and 
comments received by BOEM on the DPP and NOI.  OCS areas identified for potential leasing in 