Chapter 1: OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process
USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-1 September 2023 
1.1 Introduction 
S 
ection 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Lands Act (43 U.S.C.  § 1344) requires the 
Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to prepare and maintain a schedule of proposed OCS oil 
and gas lease sales, referred to as the National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Program (National 
OCS Program), that “best meet national energy needs for the five-year period following its 
approval or reapproval.”  The proposed National OCS Program must be prepared and maintained 
in a manner consistent with the procedures and criteria specified in Section 18 of the OCS Lands 
Act.  Those criteria, and the way in which they have been considered in preparing this  
2024–2029 Proposed Final Program (PFP) (also referred to as the 2024–2029 Program), are 
summarized in Chapter 2. 
The OCS is defined in the OCS Lands Act (43 U.S.C. §1331) and consists of all submerged lands, 
subsoil, and seabed lying seaward and outside of the lands beneath navigable waters.  In most 
cases, the OCS extends from 3 nautical miles (nm) from the coastline to the seaward extent of 
the jurisdiction of the United States (U.S.), which is at least 200 nm, and beyond in some cases, 
from the coastline (see Figure 1-1).2  
Section 18 of the OCS Lands Act requires that the proposed schedule of lease sales be based 
upon a comparative analysis of the oil and gas-bearing regions of the OCS.  For administrative 
and planning purposes, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) has established four 
OCS Regions composed of 26 planning areas.  The four OCS Regions are Alaska, Pacific, Gulf of 
Mexico (GOM), and Atlantic.  Administratively, the Pacific Region includes the State of Hawaii, 
but for the purpose of developing this National OCS Program, the Pacific Region is only 
composed of the four planning areas off the U.S. West Coast.   
2 State jurisdictions for Texas and Florida’s Gulf Coast extend 9 nm from the coastal baseline.  Louisiana’s jurisdiction 
extends to 3 imperial miles, reflecting boundaries at the time these states joined the U.S.  In 1983, President Reagan 
proclaimed the sovereign rights and jurisdiction of the U.S. over submerged lands and seas adjacent to the U.S. within 
the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), as it was understood to be under international law.  The United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) subsequently addressed the continental shelf in Article 76, providing that 
it extends to at least 200 nm and beyond in some cases.  The U.S. is not a party to UNCLOS but recognizes the rules in 
Article 76 as customary international law, which the U.S. follows.   
