USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-8 September 2023 
1.2.2 Energy Policy Considerations for Net -Zero Pathways  
EIA’s 2023 AEO data indicate that, absent major policy changes, energy consumption will increase 
slightly from today, with substantial crude oil and natural gas consumption continuing through 
2050.  However, the AEO also notes that policies can and often do change, which would result in 
different future energy patterns.  In viewing policy change within a net-zero framework, the Final 
Economic Analysis Methodology (EAM) paper (BOEM 2023b) prov ides additional information on 
net-zero pathways including Princeton University’s Net-Zero America study (Larson et al. 2021).   
While there are many f actors that play a role in addressing climate impacts and numerous 
pathways to meet net-zero emissions goals, the Princeton study outlines five domestic pathways 
that share multiple features but differ in several important respects.  The key differences are the 
assumptions made about the degree of electrification, supply constraints for various energy 
sources, and use of carbon sequestration. 
One example of the differences is the role for nuclear power under some, but not all, of the 
Princeton pathways.  However, the most critical common feature shared by the Princeton study’s 
five pathways is the varying role and importance of clean electricity.  Other common features 
between the pathways include the following: 
 Coal use is essentially eliminated by 2030 in all pathways with no new capacity added. 
 Biomass6 expands rapidly after 2030 and is widely used by 2050. 
 Electricity and hydrogen (H2) use increase across all pathways,7 with H2 from 
biomass8 being a key and relatively low-carbon fuel using carbon capture technology. 
 The deployment of agricultural and/or forestry land sink enhancement measures.9 
Al
l net-zero pathways face challenges in achieving domestic net-zero emissions by 2050.  Of 
particular importance, and independent of any National OCS Program decision, is the immediate 
need to mobilize capital and ensure political and public commitment to effectively (1) deploy 
mature technologies quickly, (2) build key infrastructure, and (3) improve and establish less 
mature technologies.  For example, three of the five Princeton pathways require an aggressive 
conversion to electric vehicles by 2050.  This contrasts with EIA’s reference case, where the U.S. 
only has 15% of light duty transportation electrified by 2050.   
 
6 As defined by the EIA, biomass is “organic non-fossil material of biological origin constituting a renewable energy 
source.” 
7 H2 under these pathways can be made by reforming natural gas (without or with CO2 capture), gasifying biomass 
(with CO2 capture), or electrolyzing water.  Each pathway takes a different approach or combination of approaches. 
8 Biomass plays a particularly critical role because it removes CO2 from the atmosphere as it grows and can be 
converted to H2 while capturing and permanently sequestering its carbon. 
9 “Land sinks” are areas where carbon is removed from the air and permanently stored in soil or trees to offset positive 
GHG emissions from elsewhere in the economy.  This helps to reduce the cost of emissions reductions. 
