USDOI 2024–2029 National OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program BOEM 
OCS Oil & Gas Leasing Program Development Process 1-11 September 2023 
natural gas, the medium American Petroleum Institute (API) gravity crude oil that is prevalent in 
the area, and the efficiencies available with larger development facilities. 
Using independent data sources and building upon BOEM’s Year 2017 Emissions Inventory Study 
(BOEM 2019), BOEM incorporated additional independent data sources to compare upstream 
GHG intensities of OCS crude oil and natural gas production with the production of non-OCS 
crude oil and natural gas.  The available data suggests that deepwater GOM production has low 
GHG-intensity profiles relative to oil produced elsewhere (Cooney et al. 2016).  The data sources 
also indicate that heavy crude oil production (such as in Canada or Venezuela) has the highest 
GHG intensity by far, followed by conventional onshore crude oil production. 
A subsequent estimate of GHG intensities for worldwide crude oil and natural gas production was 
prepared by Rystad Energy, an energy research company.  A comparative analysis of BOEM’s 
Year 2017 Emissions Inventory Study and Rystad Energy’s data found that, in 2017, 83% of GOM 
deepwater production was below Rystad Energy’s estimated total U.S. average upstream GHG 
intensity of 12 kilograms per barrel of oil equivalent (kg/BOE).  Additionally, 94% of GOM 
deepwater production was less than Rystad Energy’s estimated global average upstream GHG 
intensity of 18 kg/BOE (Rystad Energy 2020).  BOEM analysis calculated that the GHG intensity 
for crude oil produced in the deepwater GOM, where BOEM expects almost all future OCS 
production to occur, was approximately 11.5 kg/BOE in 2017.  In addition, production from the 
GOM was estimated to have the lowest GHG intensity within the domestic crude oil 
consumption mix (Cooney et al. 2016). 
In general, the highest GHG-intensity projects are those that produce heavy crude oil, flare or 
vent substantial amounts of natural gas, are late in their production lifecycle, or use inefficient 
technologies.  Crude oil projects tend to have higher GHG intensities than natural gas projects, 
although this seems to be primarily driven by the extent of natural gas flaring and venting 
(Masnadi et al. 2018). 
1.2.3.5 Employment and Public Revenues 
The domestic energy industry is an important component of the U.S. economy through its 
contribution to GDP, employment, and public revenues.  Production of domestic crude oil 
provides employment at higher-than-average wages to industry employees, but also supports 
domestic jobs in other industries that supply goods and services for exploration, development, 
production, and domestic transportation of crude oil and natural gas. 
While the crude oil, natural gas, and supporting services industries create higher-paying jobs, the 
amount of those jobs supported annually has declined since reaching a recent high in 2014.10  This 
decline is due in part to lower crude oil and natural gas prices and industry adaptations to cut 
 
10 This is evidenced in employment trends reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Series IDs: CEU1021100001, for 
All Employees, Oil and Gas Extraction, and CEU1021311201, Support Activities for Oil and Gas Activities. 
